Good afternoon to you all.
Welcome to What's
New in Core Data on iOS.
I'm Adam Swift,
a senior software engineer
on the Core Data team.
So we got a lot of great
stuff to cover today.
Going to talk to you about concurrency,
data protection, ordered relationships,
UI managed document, iCloud,
incremental stores,
and we'll wrap up with developer tools.
So let's get started
talking about concurrency.
The managed object context
is really the focal point of
Core Data's concurrency policy.
And in iOS 5, we've introduced some
new concurrency types,
some block-based methods,
and support for nested contexts.
So before we get into those things,
I want to talk about where we were.
And up until iOS 5, since Core Data was
first introduced on iOS,
we've used the model
of thread confinement.
Thread confinement means that each
context is associated with a thread.
And the objects that are owned by that
context can only be accessed on the
thread that the context was created on.
And in terms of communicating between
threads that are between contexts
that are on different threads,
you use managed object IDs,
which are a safe immutable data type.
So this has some benefits,
and it's an easy model to understand,
and it provides a safe,
efficient way to perform
transactions at the context level.
The implementation of this,
to do this correctly,
is left as an exercise to you,
the developer.
And so you would need to make sure
that you only accessed an object on the
thread that its context was created on.
And passing changes between
contexts could be a challenge.
So we tried to figure out what
could we do at the Core Data level
to make this job easier for you.
So we came up with some
formal concurrency policies
to try and simplify this.
And these are available through Manage
Object Context concurrency types.
And you use them with
this new initializer,
init with concurrency type.
And the three values you can pass in
are the confinement concurrency type,
private queue concurrency type,
and main queue concurrency type.
So let's take a look at these.
The first one,
NSConfinement concurrency type,
is actually the same thing you've
been using in Core Data since
it was first introduced on iOS.
It's the model of thread confinement
just formalized as a concurrency type.
So in this same way,
context can only be accessed by the
thread or queue that created them.
And this is also,
if you simply alloc init
a Manage Object Context,
this is the default
behavior you will get.
So this first new concurrency type is
the Private Queue concurrency type.
This is new to iOS 5 and online.
And in this concurrency type,
the context can only be accessed
on its own private queue.
And because it is a private queue,
it's not exposed,
you need to use a new method on
the context called perform block
to perform any interactions with
the context APIs through that
block that you pass to the context.
The main queue concurrency
type is very similar.
It's the same idea,
but instead of it working
with a private queue,
the context is connected
to the main queue.
And this is a great way to work with user
interface controllers or other things
that are running on the main thread,
because they can message
that context directly,
because they are running
on the main queue.
Other threads need to use the
perform block API so that the
access to the context APIs is
executed on the main queue.
And this is a great way to configure
context that you want to use to
receive results from background
processing or something like that,
and then turn around and
present those results to your
users through a user interface.
So those last two really represent the
queue-based concurrency changes we've
introduced on the managed object context.
And that's the main queue concurrency
type and private queue concurrency type.
[Transcript missing]
And important to note,
it is illegal to throw an
exception out of the block
you pass in to perform block.
Perform Block and Wait,
on the other hand,
executes its block of code synchronously.
It does it right in line.
And because it's executed immediately,
we don't consider it to
be a separate user event.
We also don't wrap it
in an auto-release pool.
Also, perform block and wait,
if you call it within a block
executing and perform block and wait,
will execute immediately,
so it is reentrant.
But again, it is illegal to throw an
exception out of your block.
So I mentioned Core Data treats
the code executing in the
perform block as a user event.
So what do I mean by a user event?
A user event is normally what happens
every time you cycle through the
main event loop in an application.
And what it means is a user
has performed some action,
and at the end of that event processing,
Core Data takes that time
to do change coalescing,
delete propagation,
take an undo snapshot,
and post any notifications that
need to be posted around the
runtime to inform other parts
of your application of changes.
Well, when you're doing a perform block,
we treat that as a user event,
and so we're going to do all of these
things to wrap up the work that was
performed asynchronously and post a
sort of terminating wrapper on a user
event to trigger all of these actions.
Another way to think about a user
event is that it is the time between
calls to process pending changes.
So let's look a little more deeply at
the private queue concurrency type.
And when you configure a context
with this concurrency type,
that queue owned by the
context is really private.
We don't expose it to you,
and we don't want you to use
dispatch get current queue.
Excuse me.
Working with the queue directly
is going to cause problems.
Things are going to break.
So if you want to interface with the
dispatch APIs or NSOperation APIs,
the way to do that is to embed the
references to your private queue
within the block you pass to perform
block or perform block and wait.
So what if you're in the situation
where you want to perform a couple of
different tasks on background queues with
private queues between multiple contexts,
and then you want to coordinate
the results of that work?
Well, this is a time where you can use
a dispatch group to coordinate
that work between multiple
blocks running in the background.
And the way you do that is
you create the dispatch group,
and then as you're going to initiate
the work to be performed asynchronously,
you call dispatch group enter,
passing in the group.
And then at the end of the worker block
that you've passed to perform block,
you call dispatch group leave.
And when you balanced out
all the enters and leaves,
the dispatch group will be completed.
And you can use dispatch group
wait or dispatch group notify on
another block running on another
queue to monitor that change.
So I've talked about how we've
introduced some new mechanisms for
working with context concurrently.
And what I haven't touched on yet
is what about sharing data between
those contexts where they're
running in different queues?
And this is where nested context
really helped solve that.
So to use a nested context,
you simply use one new piece of API,
set parent context,
and you assign a parent
to a child context.
So what does that give you?
What do you get out of
using nested contexts?
Well, it gives you an easy way to
implement asynchronous saving,
sharing unsaved changes between contexts,
and also an easy way to
implement background fetching.
So let's take a look at
how that actually works.
To implement asynchronous
saving with nested context,
You create a parent and a child context,
assign the parent to the child,
and then you save changes on the child.
And what happens is those changes
just get pushed up to the parent.
So there's no actual
I/O happening at that time.
Then you use a perform block
to execute the save on the
parent context asynchronously,
and so those changes are
written out without holding up
the thread that called that.
And we'll take another look at this when
we get to the Manage Documents section.
We'll see how that's
working for us there.
In terms of the code that's involved,
this is a little code snippet for you.
You can see I'm initializing
the parent context with the
private queue concurrency type.
And then the child gets
the parent context,
the child sets its parent context,
and then the child saves synchronously,
and then the parent, we use perform block
and pass in the parent,
the block that tells the
parent to save its changes.
So what about sharing unsaved
changes with nested contexts?
Well, this is actually a really nice,
elegant solution for this.
You create a pair of child contexts
and have them share a common parent.
Then when you save
changes from one child,
they're pushed up to the parent,
and then the other child can pull down
those changes by simply accessing the
properties on the managed objects.
This is one way you can
implement support for inheriting
changes in a detail inspector.
So create a child context,
save pushes the changes to the parent,
and then a fetch from the detail
inspector will incorporate those changes
that are present in the parent context.
And if you go to make further
changes in the child context and
decide you don't want to keep them,
you can simply toss that child
context and wipe out those changes.
Some things to keep in mind when
you're working with nested contexts.
Saving only pushes up to the next level,
so to the parent of the
context you call save on.
Fetching will pull data
down through all levels.
Using Object with ID pulls
as few levels as necessary,
and that's how you can implement
the background fetching effectively,
by using a parent context
to fetch all that data,
and then the child context can use
Object with ID to just pick objects
for Objects IDs that it wants the data.
And also, very important,
a parent context must adopt a queue
type to be settable as a parent context.
So now I'd like to shift gears a
little bit and talk about your data,
specifically data protection.
Data protection is a feature of iOS that
allows you to encrypt your user's data.
It's a file-level protection,
so you're encrypting whole files,
and that encryption is tied
to the user's passcode.
In iOS 4,
data protection was first introduced
through NS File Manager with
the keys file protection none
and file protection complete.
And what these protection classes mean,
file protection none actually means
you're not getting any data protection.
But file protection complete means
that any time the device is locked,
the file cannot be opened, created, read,
or written.
New in iOS 5, we've got two new data
protection classes,
and these are a little bit more nuanced.
There's file protection
complete unless open,
and file protection complete
until first user authentication.
So let's take a closer look
and put these in context.
When you first boot up the device,
if the user has set a passcode and
you're using file protection complete
until first user authentication,
the file is completely inaccessible.
It's completely protected because
the user hasn't authenticated yet.
File protection complete unless open.
Well, the file is protected
against being opened,
but you can create a new file
and you can read and write a
new file if you've created it.
Then later on,
once the user is authenticated and
once again the device is locked,
file protection complete until
first user authentication is now
no longer protecting that file.
You've gotten past the first user
authentication and now appears to
be a usable file to your process.
File protection complete unless
open still has the same behavior
it did on the first boot.
You can't open new files,
you can't open files,
but you can create new files or read and
write those files that you've created.
So how can you use this with Core Data?
Well, we've added support for marking
persistent stores with data protection.
And you do that through a new key,
a new option on the persistent store
called persistent store
file protection key.
So you pass that in when you're opening
your store as one of the options,
and you use the file manager
values to set the protection
class for your store file.
The default behavior if you compile
your application against iOS 5 is
you'll get file protection complete
until first user authentication.
So once the user unlocks
the device the first time,
you can access your store file normally.
Some things to keep in mind when
working with data protection
and persistent stores.
If you opt into file protection complete,
the strongest data protection class,
then when the device is locked,
your background process,
if you have a background task running,
it won't be able to access the store.
It won't be able to read, write, or open.
If you use file protection
complete unless open,
then a background task won't be
able to open up your store file,
but it will be able to work with
a store file that's already open.
And even with file protection complete
until first user authentication,
normally when you first boot up a device,
your application won't be launched
until the user authenticates.
So it makes sense for most applications.
However, if you're taking advantage of
core location region monitoring,
it could actually trigger access
to your application before the
user has unlocked the device.
So now let's take a look at
a new feature in data models,
ordered relationships.
So while I'm talking about
ordered relationships,
I want to distinguish between
sorting versus ordering.
And this is just in the context
of ordered relationships.
When I talk about sorting,
I'm talking about sorting by a value,
a property of the data
that you're working with.
It's a derived way to organize your data.
So if I've got a table of items,
I can sort them by name,
or I can change my view
to sort them by price.
That's what I mean when I'm talking
about sorting in this context.
Ordering,
I'm talking about arbitrary ordering,
where you've got a list of items,
and you want to provide flexible control
for the positioning of those items.
The ordering shouldn't be tied to
any intrinsic value of the data.
It's simply how you are
choosing to put them.
So if I want eggs to show up
before cheese in my shopping list,
that's my choice.
Ordered relationships are basically just
like the regular too many relationships,
except now you can assign the
positions to the objects that
appear in the relationship.
And when you're actually fetching
the value of an ordered relationship,
you'll get back a new class,
NSOrderedSet,
which keeps track of the position
of the objects in the relationship.
And an ordered set is a new class,
as I said,
and it's more like an array than a set.
It's an ordered collection first.
But technically,
it's a subclass of neither.
So if you have APIs that are expecting
a set or an API that expects an array,
you need to convert the contents of
the ordered set and put it into an
array or set to pass it to those APIs.
Another important thing to keep in
mind when working with ordered sets
is that there's a performance impact
from doing both the ordering and the
unicking work that the ordered set does.
So how can you turn a
regular relationship into
an ordered relationship?
Well,
you use Xcode for the data modeling tool.
And in the relationship inspector,
Set the arrangement to ordered,
and that's it.
You've opted into ordered
relationships now.
Thank you.
I'm pretty excited about them too.
So in terms of working with
ordered relationships and code,
if you're creating custom
classes for your entities,
you can generate the accessors using
Xcode 4 and put those in your class,
or you can choose to use the generic
mutator for ordered relationships,
which is mutable ordered
set value for key.
At this time, we don't have support for
automatic KVC accessors,
so you can't just call insert events
at indexes on a NSManage object
unless you've created a custom
class and implemented that method.
In terms of observing
changes on relationships,
it works like it does with
non-ordered relationships,
but the kind of notifications
you get are different.
You get a different set of change kinds.
These are the ordered collection key
value observing changes that you get.
Insertion, removal,
key value change replacement.
Another thing that gets kind of hairy
is if you've got a situation where
you've got a context that has one
state of the ordered relationship
and a store that has another state
of the ordered relationship and the
coordinator has yet one other state,
when you merge all those together,
it can get hairy.
So that...
We try to preserve the relative ordering,
but there really is no single
right answer for what the
ultimate ordering should be.
And the performance is significantly
slower than non-ordered relationships,
because we're merging both the existence
of objects in the relationship as well
as the positions of those objects.
Migration works just great
with ordered relationships.
You can migrate a non-ordered
relationship to ordered and back.
If you use lightweight migration,
we're going to give you an arbitrary
ordering when you convert a
non-ordered to an ordered relationship.
So you can use a post-processing
step after your migration to
impose an initial ordering if
that ordering is important to you.
And just to kind of sum up the
ordered relationship story,
these are really designed to give
you an easy way to implement an
ordered collection in your data model.
If performance is your chief concern,
however, you're going to be able to tune
performance a lot better with a
non-ordered relationship and then
using a property and sort descriptors
to order those results when you fetch.
So now I want to introduce
UI Managed Document.
UI Managed Document is based on
the Documents on iOS architecture.
This is a new integrated document
architecture based around UI document
that gives you auto-saving,
iCloud integration,
and asynchronous I/O support.
And I strongly encourage you,
if you're interested in documents,
to check out the session
tomorrow in Presidio at 3:15,
Storing Documents in iCloud Using iOS 5.
So let's turn our attention
to UI Managed Document.
It's UI document based,
but it adds all the Core Data features
on top of that for managing your data.
You can scale the large data sets,
you get undo/redo support built in,
all the graph management,
searching and sorting,
as well as some great
conflict resolution solutions.
In terms of working
with managed documents,
the UIManagedDocument class is a
concrete subclass of UIDocument.
So you can just go and instantiate
one in your application,
configure some store options
or a model configuration,
and then it will work with whatever
data model it finds in your app bundle.
And that's just the default behavior
out of the box if you don't want
to create a custom subclass.
I mentioned that UIDocument
gives you a synchronous I/O.
And why is that?
UI Document wants to keep your document
saved all the time so that whenever
the user hits the home button or
your process needs to be suspended,
the data is persistent on disk.
But you don't want your
user being interrupted while
they're doing their work,
while they're interacting
with your application.
So UI Document gives you a great model
for performing a synchronous I.O.
to keep the main thread free
to interact with your user.
And the way that works is the caller
initiates an open or a read or a save,
and then the save takes a snapshot
of the state synchronously.
But it doesn't write it out to disk.
What it does is when you
call that open read or save,
you pass in a completion handler block,
and then UI Document hands
that snapshot of state to a
background queue that it owns,
and it performs the I.O.
asynchronously.
When that work is complete,
it then calls your completion handler
block back on the main thread again.
So how does that work
with UI Managed Document?
Well, let's take a look at how
an asynchronous load works.
Well, to be perfectly honest,
it's a Core Data application,
so at load time, we're really not doing
all that much work.
We simply add the store when you open it.
We generally don't do any reading of the
data until you request specific data.
That's the whole idea of working
with just the data you're using.
But one of the benefits of this
is because we are adding the
store in the background queue,
if you have to do a migration,
that migration occurs in the
background and won't freeze up your
main thread or your user interface.
And we can take a look at how this works,
nice graphical format.
You call open on the main
queue on the document.
And then it calls its load method,
which calls add persistence
store on a background queue.
If a migration occurs,
a migration occurs.
But when that work is done,
we then pass the completion block back
on the main queue so you can let your
user know the document's ready for
viewing or simply present it to them.
On the writing side,
the way asynchronous writes work with
UIManagedDocument is this is where we
get the value of those nested contexts.
The document works with a main
context that runs on the main queue.
And so when you request
to save on the document,
on the managed document,
that child context takes a snapshot and
then saves the changes to the parent
which is running on a background queue.
The parent context will save those
changes to disk on a background
queue and not hold up your UI thread.
And we'll take a look at how
this is actually working.
You call save on the main queue,
and then the UIManagedDocument calls
save on the document's context.
Then on the background queue,
we call write,
and the parent context then saves,
writes the changes to
disk in the background.
Finally, when that work is done,
the completion block
executes on the main queue,
and you can let your user know
that the document is saved if
that's something you want to do.
UI Managed Document also adds
support for unmodeled data.
And the idea here is,
as we always are saying in Core Data,
large files should live outside
of the database whenever possible,
something like movies or large pictures.
And we wanted to give you
a way to handle additional
content in UI Managed Document.
So when UI Managed
Document saves its data to disk,
it's actually saving
inside a file package.
It's not just a single file.
It's a folder that can
contain many files.
And so we've added some optional
API that you can choose to override in
a subclass to add your own additional
content into that file package
whenever the document is asked to save.
And the API for supporting
that looks like this.
When you want to read
additional content -- I'm sorry.
When the document is
asked to read from a file,
we will call read additional
content from URL on your subclass.
And when the document is asked to save,
we will call additional content
for URL on your subclass.
And that method is called synchronously.
And the idea is you package up a
snapshot of what you want to write out,
and then we'll call write additional
content on the background queue
and you can write out that data
to disk taking as long as it needs.
So the summary is we've built
UI Managed Document on top of
the UI Document architecture.
It's a powerful architecture
that's well supported in iOS.
You get to take advantage
of the power of Core Data.
And you also get support for adding
any unmodeled content to your document.
Additionally,
UI Managed Document gives you the best
of the document support for iCloud
and Core Data support for iCloud.
And now I'd like to introduce
Nick Gillett to talk to you about iCloud.
So I'm Nick Gillett.
I'm a software engineer
on the Core Data team.
And I'm going to start off today
by talking to you about iCloud.
So I'm sure many of you by now
have heard about iCloud and its
persistent storage features for data
that it pushes up into the cloud.
But at Core Data,
we thought that there were some
features that we could provide to
you that would be useful as well.
With iOS 5 and
Mac OS X Lion using Core Data,
you can sync data between your devices
and your computers using Core Data.
We wanted this integration
to be as easy as possible.
So today, I'll show you the new API that
we're introducing that you'll
pick up to integrate with it.
And finally,
we thought that we could do the hard
work of merging conflicts when they
occur into your data store automatically.
So what do you get?
We're going to work on top
of all your existing stores.
And we do per record conflict resolution.
Also, because we have knowledge of
your application's object graph,
we can ensure that only the
deltas are synced across the wire,
reducing your user's overall
bandwidth requirements.
will import these changes asynchronously
into your data store so that
your user doesn't notice a thing.
And when conflicts do happen,
we'll use a three-way merge to make
sure that the correct values are
propagated through to the final result.
How does that work?
Well, imagine that you're editing
a record in your store.
The user is perhaps using an application
that stores address book content.
And they make a change to
the first name of the person.
Later, on the same device,
they change the last name.
In the meantime, perhaps they got
interrupted by a phone call,
and someone at their house used
their computer to change the same
record and update the email address.
We'll take a look at all of these changes
when we pick them up out of the cloud
and merge them into a single record,
picking up the relevant
changes from each.
Thank you.
What this hopefully means for you is
that there's a lot less code that you
have to write to integrate with iCloud.
You'll use a couple of options
when adding your persistent
store to the coordinator.
And you'll have to respond to a
notification that we imported data
from the cloud into your store.
For our part,
we'll take responsibility for
handling all the integration,
including integrating
with NS File Coordinator,
File Presenter,
and NS Metadata Query to know that
changes are available in the cloud.
We'll also monitor your stores and
export the changes for you automatically.
And when they're available in the cloud,
we'll import them for you.
And how does this work?
This is a typical user scenario.
Maybe there's a mobile device,
and they have a home computer as well.
When a change is made or a
document is created on the device,
calling NSManageObjectContextSave will
push that document or
object into the cloud.
The running application on the
Mac will notice that a new change
is available from one of the
peer devices and automatically
import it to the persistent store.
When changes are made on the Mac,
they'll also be automatically
exported into the cloud when
NSManageObjectContextSave is called.
And we'll import those into the device
when the application is running.
There's some new API that
we're introducing today.
You can use two new persistent
store options to configure
your iCloud settings.
There are
NSPersistentStoreUbiquitousContentName
key and
NSPersistentStoreUbiquitousContentURL key
.
There's also a new notification
that we'll post called NS Persistent
Store Did Import Ubiquitous
Content Changes Notification.
I had a lot of fun trying
to fit that on a slide.
Don't worry if you didn't
get to write it down.
We'll get back to it later.
The NS Persistence
Store Ubiquitous Content Name Key
is a helper for us.
Some applications talk to
multiple persistence stores,
and we found it difficult to keep
track of them across all of your
devices running multiple applications.
So we need you to give us some
help and provide us with a
file system friendly string,
so no slashes, exclamation points,
or @ symbols please,
that we can use to identify a given
persistence store on any device running
any application on any platform.
It has to be the same everywhere.
NS Persistent Store Ubiquitous
Content URL Key,
however, is optional.
You don't have to provide it.
We will generate one for you.
This key is designed so that we
know where on the file system you
would like us to stick the metadata
that we keep about your stores.
It's an opaque package,
so you shouldn't attempt to
modify it or inspect it or
generally do anything with it.
Just leave it to us.
And there are some scenarios
where you're going to want
to provide this on your own.
If you are sharing data between
applications running on Mac OS X and iOS,
for example,
you will want to provide your own,
because it is highly unlikely that
your Ubiquiti container ID will be
the same as your bundle identifier.
If you want to know how we're going
to generate this default for you,
this is the code that we use.
We take your bundle ID from
the running application,
and we call NSFileManager
URL for Ubiquiti container ID.
This is the standard method that's
used to fetch out the container
URL for a given application.
The reason why this has to be different
if you're sharing data is because
applications running on Mac OS X will
often have a different bundle
identifier than they will on iOS.
Finally, the notification.
NS Persistent Store did import
Ubiquitous Content Changes notification.
It's posted once for each persistent
store coordinator whose persistent
store has been modified by the import.
If for some reason your application uses
multiple persistent store coordinators
to talk to the same persistent store,
you will receive one
notification for each.
And the user info dictionary is very
similar to Manage Object Context
did save user info dictionary,
except that it contains
a collection of Manage
Object IDs instead of Manage Objects.
This is because we're doing
imports asynchronously,
and we cannot guarantee that your
notification will be posted on the same
thread as the objects were modified.
When you respond to an import,
you can treat it like
a save notification.
You should refresh objects
in your local context.
And if you've changed any
objects in your context,
you should merge them using
an appropriate merge policy.
If you're using a
document syncing paradigm,
there are a couple
considerations you should make.
The first is that atomic
stores can be synced wholesale.
That is, you can sync their entire file.
But you won't get conflict resolution,
and the last writer will win.
SQLite should not be
synced as a wholesale file.
You can also use the UIDocument conflict
resolution APIs if you're creating
a subclass of UIDocument to use with
your store as a way of attempting to
do conflict resolution on your own.
A few tips and tricks.
You should, of course,
respond to the import notification.
This is our only way of notifying you
that changes have been made to the
store underneath your application.
When I say use an
appropriate merge policy,
I mean that
NSMergeByPropertyStoreTrumpMergePolicy
and
NSMergeByPropertyObjectTrumpMergePolicy
are two alternatives
to the default NSErrorMergePolicy
that provide some useful behavior.
And be sure to anticipate
bandwidth considerations.
If your saves normally
generate large deltas,
that is, that there's a large amount
of data that's being generated
from one save to the next,
consider that that data will have
to be pushed over the wire to the
cloud and then downloaded by all
of your devices and computers.
Your users might not think
that that's such a good idea.
You should also use .nosync.
This tells the iCloud integration
that you don't want to sync
certain pieces of data across.
And it's a good way to make sure that
things that don't need to be synced,
like the persistent store file itself,
aren't pushed up into the cloud.
While we're on the subject
of persistent storage,
I'd like to introduce incremental stores.
For years,
developers have wondered why we
only support these four types of
persistence stores when there are so
many other persistence technologies
and database technologies out there.
And I'm happy to tell you that today,
using NSIncremental Store,
you can write your own.
With an incremental store,
you can talk to your data in
whatever language you want.
And you get all the great
features of Core Data,
like only loading the data you
need when you actually need it.
We also support faulting so
that you don't have to load
completed objects into memory.
It's OK.
Keep it coming.
And you can flush unused data
when you're done with it.
So how does this work?
Well, the idea is that you'll create
a persistent store coordinator.
And calling addPersistentStoreOfType,
you'll try to load
your incremental store.
We'll call loadMetadata on it to
determine if the metadata is compatible
with the managed object model that
you're attempting to use to open it.
If it is,
eventually your application will
create a managed object context.
And a fetch request will be sent
down to your store to get some data.
We'll call a new API method called
executeRequestWithContextError on your
store with an instance of NSFetchRequest.
And you'll return some objects.
These objects will be pushed
up into the context for you.
And when value for key is invoked,
we'll call another method,
new values for object with
ID with context error,
to get the values for that property.
If a relationship is called for,
then we'll call new values
for relationship for object
with ID with context.
This is important because it's often more
expensive to load values for relationship
than it is for a normal attribute.
Finally,
when an object tries to save or the user
tries to save changes from their context,
we'll call obtain permanent
IDs for objects error.
And we'll expect that you'll
give us back a complete set of
permanent managed object IDs that
we can work with throughout
the lifecycle of those objects.
Finally,
Walkout will call execute request
with context error again with an
instance of NSSaveChangesRequest.
Occasionally,
we'll also need to communicate with your
data in a format that we can understand.
And this is where
NSIncrementalStoreNode comes in.
We'll initialize it with a knit
with object ID with values version.
And after that,
it's an opaque container to you.
You can get the object ID for
the incremental store node in
question and values from it using
value for property description.
When we talk to your incremental store,
we'll use an instance of
NSPersistentStoreRequest and
its two concrete subclasses,
NSSaveChangesRequest and NSFetchRequest.
But you'll have to do the switching
in your execute request with
context error method on your own.
There will be flags on a fetch request
that will affect both the performance and
the result set that you pass back to us.
You should obey those if you can,
but if you can't,
you must degrade gracefully.
You cannot fail because
certain flags are set.
We will provide you with all the
object ID mapping APIs you need
to create object IDs and use them.
And you can use get managed objects
from context using object with ID.
But we will not provide
you our SQL generator.
We recommend that you use canned queries
instead to keep your implementations
as simple as possible to translate a
fixed set of NS predicates into a fetch
request or into the request that you
actually make back from your store.
There's also a JSON provider
in Foundation if your
persistence model uses that.
Finally,
we recommend that you design your
store to fulfill a specific use case,
that is, design it to a specific
application schema.
and that you try to balance
your I/O requirements and
your memory requirements.
We don't provide you any
kind of caching APIs,
but we do heavily recommend it.
This is also the best way
to talk to web services.
If you're using something like
a REST API or even a SOAP API,
this is the best way to get
your data into Core Data.
Now I'd like to give you a tour of
our changes to the developer tools.
As you know,
Xcode 4 changes a lot of things about
how you work with your applications.
Most notably, there's a new UI.
But at Core Data,
we're also introducing new optimized
managed object models that load
faster and require less memory.
We're also introducing readable
diffable models that you can use
with your favorite diff tool.
and faster scalar accessors
for primitive property types.
I know, readable models,
it's hard to beat that one.
We have a new UI.
In the upper left,
you'll find your entities.
And if you're using a table view,
you'll see a list of attributes,
relationships, and fetch properties.
You'll also see your fetch
requests on the left-hand side.
In the bottom left,
you can switch between a tree style
and an outline style for the viewer.
You can also add fetch requests.
And at the bottom right,
you can switch between our classic
diagram layout and the table layout,
as well as add attributes.
On the upper right-hand side,
using the Core Data Inspector,
looks kind of like a database tab,
you'll be able to see the inspector
for either the entity you've selected,
the fetch request, the attribute,
the property, or the relationship that
you've chosen to highlight.
This is our classic diagram view,
which hasn't changed very much.
The optimized model format.
It's much faster than before.
And it's an automatic
transition with Xcode 4.
It also lives in parallel
with regular models,
so there's no switching necessary.
Our user-readable models are also
an automatic upgrade in Xcode 4.
As far as you know,
it should be transparent.
They're based on XML,
and they should work with
your favorite diff tools.
In order to get a readable model,
you need to use a minimum
supported version,
4.1 or higher, for Xcode.
But if that's set, you should be upgraded
automatically to the XML models.
Our scalar accessors avoid the
overhead of traditional value object
construction for primitive types.
And they're a checkbox during creation.
We're also integrated with
Arc now to make the memory
management a lot easier for you.
And there's no need to implement or call,
retain, or release when using an
Arc-compiled application.
It's an opt-in per project,
but if you have files that
require specific retain and
release memory management,
you can do that on a file-by-file basis.
You should definitely see this
session or watch it on iTunes.
We're also introducing a new
feature called External Binary Data.
We've noticed that you really like
using Core Data to store your images.
And that's fine.
But it puts some interesting load
characteristics on the SQLite store.
So now, by checking this box,
we'll put the file outside
the SQLite store for you.
We're also introducing
compound indexes in SQLite,
which means that by
filling out this table,
you can index on as many
properties as you'd like.
Finally, what did we talk about today?
Well, at Core Data,
we have some amazing new features
for you in iOS 5 and Mac OS X Lion.
We're integrated with iCloud,
giving you the easiest way to
get your applications up and
running on top of the service.
And we've introduced several
new documents types for you.
There's also new data protection
APIs to help keep your data safe,
and an incremental store to
allow you to talk to any data
persistence API you wish.
As well, ordered relationships to
help you keep the data in the
order that your user wants,
not that your sort descriptor wants.
Finally,
you should get back to us on the forums
or file bug reports and enhancement
requests at bugreport.apple.com.
Thank you.
For more information,
please contact Michael Jurowicz,
our Developer Tools Evangelist,
or check us out on the web
at developer.apple.com.
And there's also some related
sessions that we think are important.
But feel free to check
those out here or on iTunes.
Thank you.